ROTH. Book Four of the Faithful and the Fallen by John Gwynn, read by Damian Lynch.
ROTH and Vengeance Pored. John Milton. Paradise Lost.
Chapter One. There it is.
The year 1144 of the Age of Exiles, Hound Moon.
There it is, fell through the night air, weightless. He caught glimpses of the Tower
of Brickhan, Caledas's still smoldering outline at the window, then below, the river coming up
to meet him. He slammed into the water, the cold shocking the breath out of him. He panicked,
disorientated, realising he didn't know which way was up. All about him was darkness and ice.
Then something grabbed his hair, and he was surging upwards, breaking through the water
in a burst of spray, and saw Alcion's pale broad face staring back at him.
"They will come hunting for us," the giant shouted over the roar of the river,
as the current gripped them, sweeping them away from the thunder of warriors feet crossing the
bridge. "Let the water take us far from them." Veridos saw the sense of that, though his hands and
feet were already numbing from the cold. He put some effort into swimming, speeding his
way from Brickhan, from Caledas, from the Kadashim. The thought still jolted him like a blow.
They turned a bend in the river, and the fortress was gone, darkness enfolding them.
The soft, weak sheen of Dorn's grey light filtered down through the lattice of branches above,
as Veridos met Alcion's gaze, an unspoken agreement passing between them,
as they both headed for the riverbank. It was harder going, swimming across the current,
and Veridos realised how exhausted his body was, but eventually he felt silt beneath his feet,
his hands grasping at Reeds as he pulled himself out of the water and flopped onto his back,
gasping, his limbs feeling lead-filled. Turning, he saw Alcion on the bank, thirty of forty paces up
river from him, staggering wearily towards him before he slumped down beside him with a grown,
water dripping from his drooping moustache. "Thank you," Alcion said. "For what?"
"Everything. Most of all for helping my family escape Brickhan's dungeons."
His wife and bairn. "How long has he gone without seeing them?"
"And what must he have suffered, knowing they were Calidus and Lycus' prisoners?"
"And for destroying Calidus' effigy of me," Alcion continued. "You have set me free."
He gave a shudder, followed by a smile. "A shadow is gone from my soul. I feel reborn.
If you mean you feel weak as a newborn bairn," Veredis muttered as he emptied his boot of water
and tried to pull it back on, "then I feel the same."
"That is not what I mean," the giant rumbled, regarding Veredis with serious eyes.
"You set Reiner and Tain free. You set me free. I owe you a debt beyond all imagining."
"You're in no debt to me," Veredis said. "I kicked the effigies into the fire on impulse,
not really knowing what they were or what power they held over you."
"But you suspected?" "Aye."
"Something that Fidele said."
He thought of Nathair's mother, hoped that she had made it to freedom along with his brother,
Krellus, McKean and Albin. "And your wife and son, I set them free because it was the right thing to
do. There was no other choice." "Ah, but there was, true heart, there always is," Veredis shrugged.
"There is no debt between us. You are my friend." "One of my only friends," it has turned out.
His thoughts swept bitterly to Nathair and the confession and revelations that had stunned
Veredis. He remembered Caledus's confession, that Nathair had slain Aquilis, his own father.
Anger and shame twisted through him. There had been so many signs. How can I have been
deceived for so long? I am a fool." "How long?" Veredis asked him. "How long have you been Caledus's